# Readme
This directory contains two OpenSim models and a zip file as desribed below:

1. `OS4_gait14dof22musc_planar_healthy.osim`- This is a reduced planar gait model with 14 degrees of freedom and 22 muscles based on the planar `gait9dof19` model by Ajay Seth. Adjusted by Carmichael Ong to follow muscle strengths of Handsfield/Rajagopal and changed hamstrings to follow semimembranosus and to adjust passive curves of hamstrings, rect_fem, and vasti. Closely based on Delp S.L., Loan J.P., Hoy M.G., Zajac F.E., Topp E.L., Rosen J.M., Thelen D.G., Anderson F.C., Seth A. Notes: 3D, 23 DOF gait model created by D.G. Thelen, Univ. of Wisconsin-Madison, and Ajay Seth, Frank C. Anderson, and Scott L. Delp, Stanford University. Lower extremity joint defintions based on Delp et al. (1990). Low back joint and anthropometry based on Anderson and Pandy (1999, 2001). Planar knee model of Yamaguchi and Zajac (1989). Seth replaced tibia translation constraints with a CustomJoint for the knee and removed the patella to eliminate all kinematic constraints; insertions of the quadrucepts are handled with moving points in the tibia frame as defined by Delp 1990. Number of muscles was reduced by Anderson to improve simulation speed for demonstrations and is not intended to be used in research. License: Creative Commons (CCBY 3.0). You are free to distribute, remix, tweak, and build upon this work, even commercially, as long as you [credit us](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/) for the original creation.  More Information on this [link](http://simtk-confluence.stanford.edu:8080/display/OpenSim/Gait+2392+and+2354+Models).
2. `OS4_gait09dof15musc_2act_LTFP_VR.osim` - This is an osseointegrated amputee model with 9 active degrees of freedom and 15 muscles based on the planar `gait14dof22musc` model as described above in `1`.  Additionally this model contains two coordinate actuators at the prosthetic knee and ankle joints to support during gait. The acutators are set with maximum force of 1000N. This value can be modified if the model is not able to perform the gait (ideally, the dafault values set should be sufficient).
3. `L-TFP-Geometry.zip` - This directory contains all the geometry files that are required to visualize the mesh and body used in the above models. Copy the `.vtp` and `.stl` files to the Geometry directory inside your `Opensim_Home` directory.


If you have any further questions, contact: v.raveendranathan@rug.nl
